# ibeam-lib-config


This library is meant for providing configuration to a file in skaarOS in an easy way
It dumps the config, a schema in json and a default config into the correct directory in skaarOS or next to the binary in other environments

## Usage 

There are 3 functions provided by this library:

(**NOTE:** IBeam-corelib-go provides the convenient CreateServerWithConfig helper, that automatically handles these things for you! Please use it in devicecores)


- **SetCoreName:** Call this first setting the name of your core, eg "core-example"
- **SetDevMode:** Call this if you are running locally and not on skaarOS (check core-template how this can be done automatically)
- **Load** When the default config has been filled with default values pass a pointer to the structure to load. The library will automatically load the correct file, and also create it when necessary

PLEASE DO NOT MAKE OF THE **SAVE** function at the moment, talk to Lukas Bachschwell @s00500

Then create a config structure. Fieldnames become labels in the skaarOS webui. Use the **struct tags** if you like your field names to be different!

## Available struct Tags

* **Validation:** use `ibValidate:"ip"` to provide validations in the webUI, all possible validators are: `ip`, `port`, `password`, `devices`, `unique_inc` (unique autoincrent id, int)
* **Labels:** use `ibLabel:"My Field"` to provide a human readable label
* **Descriptions:** use `ibDescription:"Some description"` to provide a description for the current field
* **Options**: use `ibOptions:"Option1,Option2,Option3"` to provide a dropdown select with options, the field type needs to be **string**
* **Field Ordering**: use `ibOrder:"1"` to provide a integer value indicating a ordering of your fields used to sort the input form in the UI
* **Default Values in structured Arrays**: use `ibOrder:"myDefaultValue"` to provide a default value on fields inside of structure arrays. These values will be choosen when new elements are added to the structured array
* **Required Field** use `ibRequired:"Please specify the password generated by the camera"` to mark fields as required. The text in the tag will be shown as a red warning when the field stays empty. Keep in mind that you should NOT use this in cases where a default value can be assumed by the core.
* **Special Flags for Reactor**  To indicate certain files for reactor use: `ibDispatch:"devices"`, all possible options are currently: `devices`, `active`, `modelid` (creates model selector on cores), `deviceid`, `description`, `ip` `port`


Create a default instance of your config structure. If it needs to be used on multiple go routines use a **sync.Mutex** to properly protect it (Always check your core with the race detector `go run --race .`)

## Other notes

To make the schema print in environments outside of skaarOS set `IBEAM_CONFIG_SCHEMA=.`

